- [Instructor] Properly hashing passwords is a skill
that every developer that writes a public-facing
web application needs to fully understand,
unless they're using OAuth for everything
and very few of us are using OAuth for all of our use cases.
So as such, even though we are going to step away
from the JCA just a little bit here,
this really is very critical so the developers
understand the proper way to hash passwords.
I want to baseline a little bit here
about what is the proper way to handle
the passwords in a modern internet connected system.
First and foremost, never ever ever ever store
encrypted passwords.
There is no legitimate reason why you need
to keep a password of your customer
in the encrypted fashion, ever.
If you need to use their username and password
to authenticate to another system, you should be using Oauth
because you shouldn't have their username and password
freely available to use.
Likewise, if you need to have a reset password functionality
or a forgot password functionality,
the proper way to do that is to send them
one-time tokens or use some sort of a two factor
strategy in order to reset their password.
You don't ever need to send them an email
where you've decrypted their password
and put it in plain text.
That's just a sign of a bad site.
You should also never use broken hash algorithms.
If you have a site that's public facing
or really even private as well, that is using an MD5 hash
for your passwords, stop now and fix your problem.
If you get hacked and your password data gets dumped,
not only will people know the passwords of your customers,
because like I said, MD5 is broken, but also it's going
to make you a little bit embarrassed when you name
kinda gets dragged through the mud there because of the
password hashing algorithm you're using.
And finally, never ever ever ever ever store your passwords
in plain text.
I can't say that enough times.
You should never ever keep a password in plain text,
period, end of story, never in logs, never in databases,
no where; that's actually worse than encrypted passwords
and those are pretty bad on their own right.
So do not store passwords in plain text.
Now let's talk about what makes a
good password hashing algorithm.
First and foremost, it is not cracked.
There is no indication that the password algorithm
you are using has been cracked or has the possibility
of being cracked, based on theoretical knowledge.
For instance, SHA1 is considered cracked.
SHA2 theoretically is not considered cracked.
However, it suffers a different flaw
and that is it susceptible to brute force
and that goes hand in hand with its inherent slowness.
A hash algorithm, although it is easy to compute,
does not necessarily have to be fast.
Some hash algorithms has built in slowness
designed into the algorithm and something that we want.
If it takes your user one second to authenticate
to your system, they're going to be fine.
If it takes one second between hash attempts,
you are going to dramatically slow down a brute force attack
and that actually is a good thing because if I can
cycle through one hash a second, versus thousands
of hashes a second, you can guess which one
I've got a better chance of attacking
and that's where SHA256 has one of it's flaws
because I can script so many brute force attacks
against the system because there is no inherent slowness.
So, as I've alluded to, MD5 and SHA1 should both
be considered cracked; they're also very fast,
which makes them bad choices in both rights.
SHA2 is fast, therefore, not good.
SHA3 has not officially been standardized
and it's also a fast hash algorithm,
again not good for passwords,
but good for other cryptographic needs.
So where does that leave us in the realm of possibilities?
The first is PBKDF2.
This is a valid algorithm but it's not that popular
in mainstream worlds today.
The most popular and the one that we're going
to talk about is BCrypt.
There's also a hash algorithm call SCrypt
that is similar in its own rights to BCrypt
but it is inherently different
in the way that it operates.
We're not going to talk about PBKDF2 or SCrypt,
but we are going to focus on BCrypt
and I highly encourage you to learn to use this
whenever you need to hash a password
for one of your customers.
I want to talk briefly about the concept of entrophy.
Now think about your password generation strategy.
Often we have some sort of replacement scheme
where we replace letters with numbers or symbols
and we add some numbers because of relatively complex
password algorithms that many sites force upon us.
Unfortunately, humans struggle with random passwords
and as such, those patterns tend to take hold.
For instance, people with randomized birthday strings
become a very common password that they use.
Now sure they do replacements and upper cases
and lower cases but you will find that they use
very similar patterns every time they create a password.
Real password complexity doesn't come from
making us do upper case and lower case and numbers,
it comes from length and specifically,
it comes from entrophy and entrophy
is more impacted by length than by character sets.
Now longer phrases of real words are actually easier
for humans to remember, but they're harder
for computers to brute force because of the entrophy.
So instead of forcing your customers and your clients
to use patterns that don't make sense to them
and are easy for systems to crack,
consider allowing them to have very long common phrases
of words that make no sense together but to them,
are very easy to remember.